<!-- Copyright 2020-present Open Networking Foundation -->
<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->
# PTF tests for fabric-tna

PTF is a framework for data plane testing:
<https://github.com/p4lang/PTF>

This directory maintains the test case definitions (written in Python), as well
as scripts to run them on different targets. Test cases can be found inside the
directory `tests/`. Run scripts can be found in `run/`.

Currently, we provide scripts to run PTF tests against two targets:
* Stratum running on top of tofino-model
* dummy target used to generate Stratum TestVectors

## Steps to run tests on tofino-model with Stratum

The run scripts assume that you have access to a containerized version of the
Intel Barefoot SDE that includes tofino-model. We do not provide such Docker
image, but one can be easily generated by executing the SDE install instructions
inside a `Dockerfile`.

The run script will use `docker run` to invoke the tofino-model command inside
the container. For this reason, the script expects a Docker image that has the
whole Barefoot SDE installed in it or just the tofino-model package. In both
cases, the tofino-model executable should be on `PATH`.

A Docker image for Stratum will be automatically downloaded when executing tests
for the first time.

**IMPORTANT: make sure to reserve at least 8GB of RAM** for your Docker host
system (or VM if running Docker Desktop for Mac), otherwise tofino-model might
fail to start or affect test results negatively.

### Steps

1. Build `fabric-tna` using instruction in the top-level README.

2. Set the `SDE_DOCKER_IMG` environment variable to the location of a Docker
   image that includes tofino-model:

   ```bash
    export SDE_DOCKER_IMG=my-docker-repo/bf-sde:9.5.0
    ```

3. Run PTF tests using the `run/tm/run` script:

    ```bash
    ./run/tm/run <profile> [test-case]
    ```

    To run all test cases for the basic `fabric` profile:

    ```bash
    ./run/tm/run fabric
    ```

    To run a specific test case against a specific profile,
    for example `test.FabricBridgingTest` for the `fabric-spgw` profile:

    ```bash
    ./run/tm/run fabric-spgw TEST=test.FabricBridgingTest
    ```

4. If tests fail, check logs in:

   * `run/tm/log` for tofino-model and Stratum logs
   * `tests/common/` for PTF-related logs and PCAP traces (`ptf.log` and
     `ptf.pcap`)

### Testing against custom Stratum builds

If you want to try a new Stratum build, but don't want to wait to build a new
Docker image for it, set the following env variable before running the PTF
tests.

```bash
export STRATUM_DOCKER_FLAG="-v /path/to/my/stratum_bfrt:/usr/bin/stratum_bfrt"
```

## Migrating to Stratum Test Vectors

We are currently in the process of migrating the test runner framework from PTF
to Stratum's [testvectors-runner].

For this reason, some PTF-based test case definitions are instrumented
to generate protobuf-based [TestVectors] (TVs) (under `tests/ptf/testvectors`).
The long-term goal is to remove all PTF references from the codebase, but
continue using Python as a convenient way to generate TVs. For now, we use a
Python library (`tvutils`) to wrap PTF and P4Runtime calls in methods that
generate TV's actions, stimuli and expectations instead of calling the
corresponding PTF or P4Runtime gRPC methods.

### Steps to generate TestVectors

The instructions to generate TVs are similar to running PTF tests on tofino-model.

1. Build `fabric-tna` using instruction in the top-level README.

2. Generate TestVectors using the `run/tv/run` script:

    ```bash
    ./run/tv/run <profile> [device] [portmap] [grpcaddr] [cpuport] [test-case]
    ```
   Default values for optional arguments are:
   1. `device`: `tofino`
   2. `portmap`: `portmap.veth.json`
   3. `grpcaddr`: `127.0.0.1:28000`
   4. `cpuport`: `320`

   Example command with all the optional arguments set:

   ```bash
   ./run/tv/run fabric DEVICE=tofino PORTMAP=port_map.hw.json GRPCADDR=10.128.13.111:28000 CPUPORT=320 TEST=test.FabricBridgingTest
   ```

    To generate TestVectors for the basic `fabric` profile:

    ```bash
    ./run/tv/run fabric
    ```

    To generate a specific test case for a specific fabric profile,
    for example `test.FabricBridgingTest` for the `fabric-spgw` profile:

    ```bash
    ./run/tv/run fabric-spgw TEST=test.FabricBridgingTest
    ```

## Running PTF tests with hardware device

To run PTF with a hardware switch, it requires a server with 4 network
interfaces (e.g., QSFP) which attached to the switch.

Before starting the test, check the `ptf/run/hw/port_map.hw.json` file to make sure each
port is configured correctly.

For example, the interface `xl710c5p1` connect to switch port `296`, the config will be:

```json
    {
        "p4_port": 296,
        "iface_name": "xl710c5p1"
    }
```

Before running the test, make sure all interfaces list in the port map file can be found
by `ip link` command.

To run PTF tests with hardware:

```bash
./ptf/run/hw/unary <profile>
```

## Running line rate tests with hardware device

Line rate tests for fabric-tna also requires a server with 4 network interfaces
attached to the switch.

Before running the test make sure TRex config file (`ptf/run/hw/trex-config/4-ports-with-l2.yaml`)
includes correct interface configuration.

For example, we have 4 QSFP(40Gbps) interface connect to the switch:

```yaml
  port_limit: 4
  interfaces: ['5e:00.0', '5e:00.1', '3b:00.1', '3b:00.0']
  port_bandwidth_gb: 40
```

Rest of part of are the configuration for memory and CPU, see this [document](https://trex-tgn.cisco.com/trex/doc/trex_manual.html#_memory_section_configuration)
for more information.

For the PTF port mapping config(`ptf/run/hw/port_map.trex.json`), since we don't send or
receive packet with PTF framework, we will use dummy interface in the port mapping
config and only provide P4 port numbers.

To run the line rate test:

```bash
./ptf/run/hw/linerate <profile>
```

[testvectors-runner]: https://github.com/stratum/testvectors-runner
[TestVectors]: https://github.com/stratum/testvectors
